# Access Requests

When a device needs to gain access to a secured Signal K server, it can use "Access Requests" to request and be granted access to the server.

See [Request/Response](request_response.md) for more information on request/response semantics.

A device could be a display or for example an engine sensor or a temperature sensor.

Definitions:
* `clientId` is a string that uniquely identifies a device. This could be a UUID, a combination of model number and serial number, or any other string. The client is responsible for issuing the value. The client should use the same value for all its requests.
* `requestId` is a string generated by the server in response to an access request and used by the client to correlate the request with the results. The client should not rely on the format or contents of this string.

## Device Requests
The device will send a REST request to the server:

`curl -k --header "Content-Type: application/json"  --request POST --data '{"clientId":"1234-45653-343453","description": "My Awesome Humidity Sensor"}'  https://localhost:3443/signalk/v1/access/requests`

If the server does not support access requests it must return http status code 501 Not Implemented.

For a successfully received access request the server must return an HTTP status code 202 and a JSON response with an href to check the status and get the response:

```json
{
  "href": "/signalk/v1/access/requests/358b5f32-76bf-4b33-8b23-10a330827185"
}
```

The server should then provide a process for an administrator to review and approve or deny the request.

In the mean time, a device should poll the server using the `requestId` in the response above to see if it has been granted access and get the token:

The request is pending:
```
curl -k https://localhost:3443/signalk/v1/access/requests/358b5f32-76bf-4b33-8b23-10a330827185
{
  "state": "PENDING"
}
```

The request is denied:

```
$ curl -k https://localhost:3443/signalk/v1/access/requests/358b5f32-76bf-4b33-8b23-10a330827185
{
  "state":"COMPLETED", 
  "result: 200,
  "accessRequest: {
    "permission": "DENIED"
  }
}
```

The request is approved: (`expirationTime` is optional)

```
$ curl -k https://localhost:3443/signalk/v1/access/requests/358b5f32-76bf-4b33-8b23-10a330827185
{
  "state":"COMPLETED", 
  "result": 200,
  "accessRequest": {
    "permission": APPROVED",
    "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJkZXZpY2UiOiIxMjM0LTQ1NjUzLTM0MzQ1MyIsImlhdCI6MTUzNjg4NDY5MSwiZXhwIjoxNTY4NDQyMjkxfQ.5wypdKin5Q-gsi9aQ8sN1XBAP8bt3tNBT1WiIttm3qM",
    "expirationTime": "2018-09-20T16:51:31.350Z"
  }
}
```

There was an error with the request:

```
$ curl -k https://localhost:3443/signalk/v1/access/requests/358b5f32-76bf-4b33-8b23-10a330827185
{
  "state":"COMPLETED", 
  "result: 400, 
  "message": "A device with clientId '1234-45653-343453' has already requested access"
}
```

On approval, the device would save the token in a secure way and use it when sending or requesting data. Subsequently, when a device gets an 'Access Denied' response, it should send a new request for access to get a new token.

